Краткая история гномьих родичей%
Книга Норна%
Книга руин%
The Loss of Under%
Личные воспоминания разведчиков%
Легенда о Топоре-бороде%
Флора и фауна гишлена%
изучение гномьих родичей%
Правило Роденрена%
Изобретения гномов%
Тепук-изгой%
Напитки гномов%
A Dwarven Allfather is a religious figurehead. Not to be trifled with, in order to become an Allfather one must first become a Caste Lord, and only the fiercest warriors become Caste Lords. After two hundred years, a lord can then compete in a series of grueling adventures to see which deserves the honor title Allfather. - A brief history of Dwarven Kin 1%
Each clan dyed, braided and wore their beards in a fashion exclusive to their Mountain Home. Each braid, each knot and each strand was an exclamation, a silent nod to that house’s feats. Each member proud of the heritage that style brought forth, from the Under Dwarves to the Golden Hammer Dwarves, each had a history, a tale to tell. - A brief history of dwarven kin 2%
Every Dwarf lived under the Marble Oath, a series of mantras that they would mumble under their breath. The Oath spanned dozens of books, and dictated law, education, work ethic and clan names. A dwarf unable to recite the oath in under a week could never be considered for a post as a Caste Lord. - A brief history of dwarven kin 3%
Dwarven family structure is complex, to say the least. Many believe females do not exist, while others swear dwarves sprout up overnight.  Dwarven kin keep this secret to themselves, either out of jest of other races, or to ensure their secrets are never divulged. Many a lich king has found his end prying at the mountain cores in an attempt at uncovering the secrets of dwarven life. - A brief history of dwarven kin 4%
Caste Lords began as Mountain Barons, who hailed an UnderDuke. Once every two hundred years an UnderDuke could battle three other UnderDukes to first blood and he who won all single combat became the new Caste Lord of that mountain. In this way lineage was not a determining factor of dwarven leadership, but strength and resolve. - A brief history of dwarven kin 5%
Dwarven crying masks were worn for an entire year to celebrate the passing of an allfather. As dwarves are robust, the need to bear sorrow physically is shameful to their culture. Crying masks allowed mourning to continue to be a private matter while unobstructing work. Dwarven doctors wear a similar mask all the time, to keep their clients from knowing when they grimace. - A brief history of dwarven kin 6%
Dwarves do not discriminate in terms of tasks and their worth. Pride in one’s job is first and foremost, and Dwarves will do the work typically tasked to human females with the same zeal they would any other job. Cleaning, cooking, and sewing with aplomb, praise is the highest reward, and a dwarven compliment of your cooking would feel as satisfying as slaughtering an encroaching Orc skirmishing party. - A brief history of dwarven Kin 7%
Dwarven scribes have always preferred stone and marble over paper for writing, only adopting the latter in the past thousand years due to expansion into the lands above ground. Paper often caused itchiness, and any dwarf worth his salt will always prefer the smooth texture of stone to the coarseness of paper. Born of rock, written in rock Is a traditional dwarven saying. - A brief history of dwarven kin 8%
The old kin referred to the more reptilian form of the traditional "Guuplin" as the "Huppa-Guuplin", or Hobgoblin in common tongue. Generally taller, more intelligent, and ochre in color, these beings comprised the vanguard of the Goblin army, serving as ranking officials in the horde. Norn noted that killing the Hobgoblin would weaken the rank and file goblins zeal - Book of Norn 1%
Simple minded, razor toothed and mean, a goblin has a lot going for it, all of it bad. Nobody knows where they came from but they were first spotted in smaller raiding parties on the southern border of the Nebulous Mountains. Their entire species functions as a single civilization, a single unit, but internally their power structure is fractured beyond any reasonable semblance of order - Book of Norn 2%
Over time, Goblin weaponry evolved to the state it’s currently in. At first, they rushed into combat with simple spears. Serrated edges lined with poison on them augmented the rudimentary weaponry. Any other civilization would take the concept and apply it to other weaponry, Goblins need to re-invent the entire concept for each weapon, with serrated poison swords just now coming into existence, a "mere" 200 years after the introduction of the first serrated spear. - Book of Norn 3%
And our axes felled them by the dozens, their shield lines falling under the weight of our powerful strikes. Dwarves are naturally more powerful than enemies up to five times larger than them, and a well-placed strike to a shield will phase all but the most powerful of enemies. - Book of Norn 4%
Dwarves eschewed the Elf bow millennia ago upon conception of the Dwarven throwing axe. A smaller, lighter hand axe that allowed extreme precision due to its ergonomic nature. I’ve seen a Master Dwarf axe-thrower completely lop off a harpy wing mid swoop through an enemy battle line. Bantast the rough designed the first throwing axe over two thousand years ago and since then kin have had them on their person at all times. - Book of Norn 5%
Dwarven honor names are of utmost importance, they tell a story, YOUR story. Your eyesight was poor before the Anvil/Hamster incident, and I understand you lost both of yours to a mishap with a cat and a goblin thief, but that’s no reason to say either of your honor name is valued less than the other kin, both of you are Heroes in your own way. - Book of Norn 6%
Dwarven masonry has no equal. They are the alpha and the omega of stonework. Legend has it that there are no Dwarven women because they create each other out of stone infused with magma found in the heart of the Golden Mountains. - Book of Norn 7%
And the horde approached, gnashing and crashing, drooling and screaming. Twenty kin, led by Norn the Underking; managed to hold off an entire orc legion for a fortnight while the rest evacuated to the East. It took him ten years, but Norn returned home, limping and mangled, but he returned a true hero. - Book of Norn 8%
Not a noble by birth, Norn put Kin at the forefront of every action he undertook. It’s for this reason that after the reconquest of the Under, the Noble Council and Allfather bestowed Norn with an honorary title, Underking. - Book of Norn 9%
Norn led a series of expeditions past the Under, further and further into enemy territory. He conquered lich and fell beast alike, demon and thunderer. Every conquest in the name of his Kin. For decades it was all the enemy could do to hold him back, he was truly invincible. - Book of Norn 10%
As with all entities, with all life, everything starts with a why. The general belief is that Dwarf kinship was light, respectful of the natural balance, powerful. At some point something borne of opposition, of their antithesis, their bane manifested. Blooming and basking in the light given off by the Dwarven kin, Ruin awoke from its great slumber. - Book of Norn 11%
Norn’s mangled body wouldn’t dissuade him or his entourage of Ruin-seekers. The Under was home to a broken core, a crack in the essence of the universe. It was the only place a being such as Ruin could reside, it’s foul influence hung over the old halls like a stench that flooded your senses, pushed into your will, twisting what you were. Yet Norn did not falter. - Book of Norn 12%
and this is how Norn the Great, The Pure, liberator of Under, the defender of innocents, the lifeblood of Kin, the slayer of Countless, the slayer of Horseborne, the Subjugator, Orcbane this is how he became Norn of Ruin. - Book of Norn 13%
The first Salt Isle Dwarves were said to have crossed the jagged straits after fleeing the Horde. Norn’s selfless actions allowed an enclave to set sail to the north, and little communication existed for hundreds of years after. All that was known was that these seafaring dwarves survived. - Book of Norn 14%
Salt Isle dwarves are the stuff of legends. Dwarves traditionally claim that they have blue beards, mate with mermaids, and worship an unseen water god. Old wives tales meant to scare children assuredly. - Book of Norn 15%
The great Caste Lords were the leaders of each of the surrounding mountains. Dwarves claim they are borne of the earth, and as such inheritance of the mountains (and their underground cities) was delegated to the clan that first populated one. - Book of Norn 16%
Under each mountain was a single core. The cores are the stuff of legend, some claimed they are what was used to create dwarves, others that they were dormant semi deity’s that advanced the dwarven race, and yet others claimed the mountains were alive and that these brilliant lights were its heart. Whatever they are they are beautiful, mysterious, and the Dwarven Lords sit underneath them in their marble thrones, safeguarding them. - Book of Norn 17%
The age of Ruin began 50 years ago, but traces of what was to come could be found in the outer most realms up to a dozen years prior. Goblin warbands working in conjunction with a lich lord could be found to the south. To this day nobody knows what exactly caused the alliance, but it was the beginning of the end of the Golden Age of the dwarves. - The Book of Ruin 1%
After Norn’s defeat at Under, the Dwarven Exodus began, for the next 20 years the Caste Lords fell. Two baronies fell almost overnight in the north while the Eastern duchies fell within a year. The enemies began working in waves, coordinating in a manner the dwarves had never seen. The undead would push as a unit while kobold spearmen would pelt our units from afar. - The Book of Ruin 2%
Ruin has never been seen before, but it’s presence hangs over the continent like a thick fog. It’s believed to befuddle your mind, twisting and turning your will, eating you from the inside out. The visions vary, but the sight of a large black beating heart is shared by all. Ruin is alive. - Book of Ruin 3%
The black heart is thought to be the physical manifest of Ruin’s power. Somewhere in the continent there is a chamber, and within that chamber a core, and near that core a wicked, beating evil heart. Why does it exist? Who made it? The current Allfather spent his entire existence surrounded by knowledge, and nothing could have prepared him for this. - Book of Ruin 4%
Norn’s disappearance is suspect. He was seen leading an undead host in the north, a goblin horde in the south, and a kobold war party to the east. Each sighting from a reputable source, the time it would have taken him to lead those armies would simply not be possible. His eyes glowed deep black, smoky trails left behind wherever he walked. - Book of Ruin 5%
Ruin seekers are a group of exiled caste lords who have been tasked by the Allfather to push back into enemy territory and discover what happened to our hero Norn. Dwarven enclaves have slowly been cropping up over enemy territory, with many dwarves leading singular lives in peace. Communities are the first step in organizing our kin towards the reconquest of our homes. - Book of Ruin 6%
Rodrick appeared in the eastern camps near Under a few years ago. Information is lost, but he wore a Caste Lord insignia and was obsessed with finding ruin. He mounted a crack group of Ruin Seekers and began liberating enslaved dwarves. It was enough for most, but other Caste Lords were wary of his motives. - Book of Ruin 7%
The dwaves, once in the millions, now bordered on the tens of thousands. Without their cores, without their mountain homes, without their heritage there simply could not be more dwarves. Ruin knew this, it relished in the fact that it had single handedly brought down the glue that held together chaos and order. Dwarven neutrality was instrumental in the world’s functionality. - Book of Ruin 8%
If there were a Dwarven god, it showed its mercy fifteen years ago. Where once the united enemy armies had been implacable, they now grew disorganized, malcontent and unruly. It seems Ruin's influence had lasted a little over sixty years and had now died down. Overnight, it seemed, the morale of the enemy armies weakened, they were back to infighting and rarely worked together. Sightings of Norn died off completely, and he is little more than a tale we tell to frighten children. - Book of Ruin 9%
Ruin’s influence gone, dwarves began uniting under a single banner. It would be many years before they were able to retake a mountain home, but they would, they had to lest their race fall into oblivion. Each island surrounding the main continent was recaptured, and dwarven enclaves were built on each. The time of the dwarves was coming once again. - Book of Ruin 10%
Over 2000 years ago, the Dwarven Golden Age was in full swing. Under was a series of interconnected cities that lie beneath 14 major mountains in the continent’s largest mountain range. We had become the strongest, most robust race in the land, but our desire to explore led us up and out into the overland. - The Loss of Under 1%
The first dwarven scouts saw light for the first time 2000 years ago, until then we had lived underground, we truly believed the extent of our world was limited to the center of Under. Discovering the overland was akin to discovering an entirely new existence. Whatever was out there we would understand it. - The Loss of Under 2%
Under soon became a bustling hub of trade. It’s giant mountain entrance was accessible by Elf, Human and Centaur alike. We would trade away our gems, valueless little baubles, for furniture, commodities and most importantly, information. We slowly but surely became the de-facto trade hub of the entire continent. - The Loss of Under 3%
Within two centuries Under was not only run by its traditional Caste Lords, but also engaged in overland politics on a continental scale. Our race strove to be the continent’s mediators, expanding our influence and helping others with our technological prowess. From the bridges of Lurstom to the Pillars of HighMount, we built it all. - The Loss of Under 4%
A thousand years ago there was a political schism, one that affected everyone on the continent. Goblins had crossed the jagged sea to the east and formed colony after colony, encroaching on the centaur lands. The Humans demanded our kin eliminate them, the Centaur, using this to their advantage, allied with the Goblin hordes and pushed west into Human territory. - The Loss of Under 5%
The war lasted 500 years and we remained neutral. Our neutrality led Humans and Elves to mistrust us, believing we acted out of profit. We would offer safe haven to any who entered our land with the condition no blood be shed on our soil. When a wayward human prince murdered a centaur tribal lord however, we closed our doors for the first time in almost two millennia. - The Loss of Under 6%
Two hundred years passed before we opened our doors again. In such a short time so much had happened. The centaurs had all but disappeared, the humans pushed back to the far reaches of the continent. IN their place, goblin hordes, lich lords, kobolds. What had happened? - The loss of Under 7%
Norn led a series of incursions into the hostile territory, but there was no explanation, no rhyme or reason. Something had happened while we turned a blind eye to the world, and the rest had paid the price. Every entrance we sealed, every door and gate we left abandoned was covered in scratch marks, people by the thousands begging for aid, we had abandoned the world, and the world had suffered. - The loss of Under 8%
The first Caste Lord fell in the north, felled by hundreds of kobolds hidden in barrels, boxes and other materials laid out and taken by cart by a small goblin caravan waving a trade banner. The old ways were gone, nobody was our ally, we had none but our kin to rely on. - The loss of Under 9%
After the attack on Under and our exile to the east, we realized our own inaction had led us to the edge of global extinction. With new resolve we set out to retake our land, our world, and avenge the fallen. Sadly, Norn had disappeared, having left to seek the cause of the great ruin east twenty years ago. - The loss of Under 10%
The western most part of the continent was ours, and we began crossing the sea to different surrounding islands. Rodrick led this feat, liberating captured dwarves and tasking them with creating outposts and told to await Dwarven reinforcements. - Scouts Personal Memoirs 1%
The plague doctor is a strange fellow. I’d heard of them before, but being the young dwarf that I am, I never encountered one. His mask never came off, and his fixation for disease, wounds and treatments in general was off putting, to say the least. But one thing was clear, he had saved many lives, mine included, on numerous occasions. - Scouts Personal Memoirs 2%
I was captured a year ago by a small goblin host to the north of our farming haven. We were taken from our home on the continent and forced east, to the sea. We sailed for a fortnight and ended up at a far, distant land. It wasn’t until Rodrick liberated us that we understood that we had been taken to the furthest reaches of the continent. - Scouts Personal Memoirs 3%
I’ve heard tale of many ancient runestones on this island. While I’m not sure what they do I have seen one before. I placed my hand upon it and it lit up blue, it felt warm and cold to the touch, like the coolest obsidian had turned once again to magma from whence it came. Then, nothing... - Scouts Personal Memoirs 4%
I began searching the island’s ruins, stealth my eternal ally in this endeavor. I learned to mask my scent using local herbs, musk, and a mix of berries and once managed to discover an ancient, vast underground network of cities. There were hundreds of goblins, led by a single, thick necked, grossly disfigured king. - Scouts Personal Memoirs 5%
I stumbled across the Northern Breaches, the jagged escarpment stretching as far as my eyes could see. This far north, the air was bitter, crisp, clean. The entire area was barren save a single odd troll, it’s voracious maws gnashing in anticipation of the meal in the form of a horned goat it was about to ingest. I took my leave silently, it’s crunching echoed throughout the valley. - Scouts Personal Memoirs 6%
My first encounter with an Elf resulted in his death. Mind you it wasn’t my fault entirely, he drew his bow and fired in my general direction. We dwarves don’t understand the meaning of warning shots, and my aim with the crossbow has always been spot on. And I’ve not encountered another Elf since. - Scouts Personal Memoirs 7%
Goblins seemed to know as little about each other as we did of them, bickering, fighting and insulting constantly. I overheard more than a hundred conversations, and all of them were different versions of the same plot to overthrow their current leader. Betrayal is in their blood it seems. Strange indeed. - Scouts Personal Memoirs 8%
Orcs were new creatures, they smelled new, they looked new, they were unique. They had the intelligence of a human, the strength of a half troll, and the malice of a goblin. Surely an evil of this caliber had to be an omen, a sign of times to come. I don’t know if they are exclusive to this island or not, but if they breed as fast as goblins we are done for. - Scouts Personal Memoirs 9%
I’m certain at some point I must have encountered the thing of tales, 'Ruin'. I write everything down, I never forget, yet there is a stretch of three weeks in which I have no recollection of what happened. I was investigating something ancient, and I saw red eyes. The eyes remained even when I closed my own, they seared into my mind. I awoke in the wilderness, was this ruin? - Scouts Personal Memoirs 10%
The first axebeard reigned over a thousand years ago, and his successors were dubbed as ‘axebeard II’ and ‘axebeard IV’ so on and so forth. Renowned for their mastery in axe throwing, they were beyond good, excellent, legendary to say the least. It’s believed that axebeard never actually died, the embodiment of his heroism and skill passes on to another dwarf. Dwarves aren’t spiritual about it, it’s merely seen as a logical explanation for the heritage of axebeard. – Legend of Axebeard 1%
It’s often that a hero isn’t dubbed an axebeard until their death, or after one of their great heroic exploits. Axebeard IV was only dubbed so when he singlehandedly brought down the first troll king, Jumajin. His feat was extraordinary, legend says it took a dozen thrown axes to severe jumajin’s head, because the thickness was that of a hundred year old oak. – legend of axebeard 2%
After hearing the tale of Axebeard’s triple axe throwing skill, one often asks "how does a dwarf throw three axes when he only has two hands?" the answer is in fact rather simple, and merits the name axebeard itself. The beard is in fact tied to the third axe with a loosening knot, that undulates with the motion of the thrower, and thus three axes are propelled simultaneously, rather than the standard one or two. – legend of axebeard 3%
Axebeard often made a joke of his foes, by nailing them to a nearby wall with a dozen throwing axes. The typical goblin would thrash about aimlessly trying to writhe free of their entrapment. axebeard would laugh with merriment before delivering a final and fatal blow. - Legend of axebeard 4%
Many adventuring dwarves to this day aspire to the embodiment of axebeard. Although a great and noble hero, he was never settled, and roamed freely to and fro. This was not because a lack of merit or bestowed nobility, but because his heart was set on exploration and the discovery of new lands. Much of the known world is thanks to axebeard and his brave exploration. – legend of axebeard 5%
Axebeard II was never found, like many of the other axebeards, voyages often ended as sudden and mysteriously as a lost coin by the hole in your pocket. Many wondered if he had found somewhere to settle, but most believe he finally met a foe worthy of his skills. Axebeard II never emerged when he delved deep into the earth’s core, searching for the mystical nameless beast, known only as ruin. – legend of axebeard 6%
The first axebeard was said to be close friends with bantast the rough, who invented the finest design of throwing axes still used to this day. Legend says that axebeard picked up the first throwing axe, having never touched a weapon before, it came as natural to him as a fawn to its’ mother’s tit. Thus the hero was born that day. – legend of axebeard 7%
The axebeard title became renowned among foe and friend alike, it was often told that kings and commanding officers would rumour and announce the presence of axebeard in their midst, if only to rally their troops with courage and instill fear in the opposing force. most scribes are still unsure if these were tall tales or in fact truth, as axebeard had such a meandering presence along the continent. – legend of axebeard 8%
Gishlain was a stout and explorative young dwarf, he rarely walked without a skip and a tune, and was born for the overworld. Although some have attributed his love of things that grow to that of the elves, it is much different indeed. Gishlain’s love was by fascination and discovery, however, the thankfully deceased elven race loved them sickenly, they wouldn’t even cut down a single tree! – gishlain’s flora and fauna 1%
Gishlain was first noted in his ability with growing things when he helped farm the mushroom ravines with his father. But when the dwarven race surfaced, he couldn’t count the number of new species and specimens, he set out on a journey to observe and document as much as he could. - Gishlain’s flora and fauna 2%
Gishlain made an interesting observation of the common skeleton. Although imbued and naturally erected by necromancers. He discovered that they can indeed be found reanimating on their lonesome. How they did so, he was uncertain, but he believed they were actually quite peaceful, when untampered with by foul magic. – gishlain’s flora and fauna 3%
The common kobold, although seemingly inferior due to their poor abilities in speech and agility, are actually quite intelligent. Gishlain reported that, upon meeting a peaceful tribe, they had a wealth of knowledge in plants and algae, and medicinal uses for each. – gishlain’s flora and fauna 4%
Gishlain’s merry and active life was unfortunately cut short by an unforeseen complication between his apprentice’s concoction of a simple brew, that he’d mistakenly used a viridian flower instead of a birken flock. Although seemingly alike in color, one is superb in aroma, and the other is profoundly fatal, only to dwarves. – gishlain's flora and fauna 5%
Because of gishlain’s apprentice’s mistake, all dwarves now abstain from both birken flock, and viridian flowers. To this day, no one is certain which is fatal, and which is the scrumptious. Some dwarves have claimed to test it, but even after so, they were unsure if they indeed mixed them up like gishlain’s apprentice. – gishlain's flora and fauna 6%
one of the most odd tales of gishlain was that he befriended a cave troll that tried to kidnap him in the dead of night. The cave troll became entranced by gishlain’s descriptions and wonderment of all the living things from the overworld, the cave troll rushed out into the sunlight and quickly turned to stone. - Gishlains flora and fauna 7%
one of Gishlain’s clever inventions helped the dwarves supersede the trollegitians of the deep, almost thrice in size of a regular troll. It also invigorated his kin to dance and party much more often than normal. Which is a lot to a dwarf. His invention was called the static steel gun. – gishlain’s flora and fauna 8%
the static steel gun was one of his favourite inventions. They would tunnel shafts from the surface down to the deep caverns, and then craft a large stone sphere, covered with patches of polished steel. The light would reflect off the ball and shoot out into all directions, lighting up the cavern and petrifying trolls, followed by celebratory dancing. – gishlain’s flora and fauna 9%
Dwarves, stocky as they were, were limber, nimble and dexterous. They weighed a lot more than they appeared, their heartiness ensured only the most terrible of wounds could fell them. It was this that led them to victory time and time again. Most hailed them as inherently magical creatures. - A study of Dwarven Kin 1%
Internally, a Dwarf was similar to a human with a few major exceptions. When the heart was wounded, a smaller, secondary heart found nestled behind the stomach would begin it's beat, allowing the primary heart to heal. A Dwarf's healing capability is only rivaled by a troll. Missing thumbs eventually grew back, a split pancreas would seal, and a gashed brain stem could be sown together. - A study of Dwarven Kin 2%
Dwarven life expectancy was infinite, but their combative nature and fearlessness is what led them to the grave. More often than not, the act of being alive for centuries led Dwarves to a boredom that eventually saw them enlist in the most daring shock troops, seeking glorious death in combat. - A study of Dwarven Kin 3%
Amputation of major limbs was the only thing a Dwarf could not heal. Losing an arm would often be treated with similar pomp and circumstance as the loss of a human life, with subsequent mourning. Dwarves, however, were able to infuse their iron with magic to create a prosthetic golem limb to circumvent the loss.-  A study of Dwarven Kin 4%
The only thing Dwarven doctors have never been able to cure is death. There have been cases of a decapitated leader being stitched together quickly before the nerve endings could die out, but true death is something no dwarf has ever come back from. Norn speculated that infusing necromantic rites with Dwarven medical practice could work, however. - A study of Dwarven Kin 5%
The case of Blood Eye Fritz, a Dwarven caste lord who had both eyes slashed in half, is curious. In a later battle against an encroaching enemy dwarf army, he tore out the eyes of an enemy, swapped them for his own, and within a week was able to see as if nothing had happened. - A study of Dwarven Kin 6%
Ultimately, whether the Dwarven life span is a curse or a boon is up for debate. Many Dwarves complain that seeing eons go by skews their perception of the world. Squabbles between clans, humans and orcs seem like petty nonsense to them in the face of an unending existence. A study of Dwarven Kin 7%
Ruin changed everything, it's influence tainted the mountain hearts, tainted the very souls of the Dwarven Kin. Dwarves now died of old age, dwarves thousands of years old began to grow grey and weak, and for the past century, had to come to terms with the concept of their own mortality. - A study of Dwarven Kin 8%
Rodenren was fit to be a caste lord, and so was his birth right. But he was a warrior, and his speech was not strong nor adequate. His heart was set on combat, and battle he did well. They say there isn’t enough stone in the face of the earth to scribe the number of injuries he endured. – Rodenren’s rule 1%
He had an incredible gift of recovering from mortal wounds, and despite his many scars, they all faded, and never stopped his battles. This great strength is believed to have imbued even the armour he wore, and so after his passing, his apparel become sacred artefacts. – rodenren’s rule 2%
Rodenren was fearless, and rode head first into every battle he fought. He was often surrounded by a dozen foes, but never flinched, not for a second. It’s common knowledge that he took more blows than he gave, ten times even. – rodenren’s rule 3%
Once after a mighty victory, he marched back to the nearest dwarven settlement, walked right past the local physician and straight into the nearest tavern. He ordered ten rounds of ale, all for himself, and drank them standing up. He had a severed buttocks, and he dare not sit down on it. – rodenren’s rule 4%
His profound constitution was so miraculous, some dwarves swore they’d seen him lose an arm, and before the thing could grow back, he merely stated ‘it’s just a flesh wound’ and carried on with his entourage. Of course such tales are unproven. – rodenren’s rule 5%
Rodenren was very much against the idea of dwarves surfacing to see the overworld, but it was an ambitious time in dwarven culture. Upon seeing the overworld, rodenren spat in disgust, and withdrew back into the earth. They say he single-handedly kept the foul beasts of the earth at bay, which allowed us to enjoy a lasting peace. – rodenren’s rule 6%
Rodenren never again saw the sun, he said it made him feel nauseous , so most of his battles were the creatures and hordes of the deep. Once he went missing for a week, and when he returned he said he’d been ambushed by poisonous cave crawlers. Their poison intoxicated him so heavily, he fell unconscious for several days, and when he woke up, he finished them off and stumbled home. – rodenren’s rule 7%
At the ripe old age of 481 rodenren finally laid down to rest. No matter how many scars he accumulated, it had no effect on his overall health. He was wide and fat, and his beard grew as long as any good dwarf. Bards still sing of his supernatural gift, and wonder why it came upon him. Others seek out his garments in hopes of gleaning some of his power. – rodenren’s rule 8%
The runestones have served to guide Dwarven kin to their undercities for centuries. At first they pointed directly to the cities, but in recent years, due to the influx of warring races, the stones point towards other stones, triangulating a position around the city. - Dwarven Inventions 1%
Dwarven throwing axes are perfectly aligned on both ends to always pierce. The shaft  is hollow so as to facilitate the upward swing, whilst the ends are both recurved and sharpened so as to pierce any armor. - Dwarven Inventions 2%
Dwarven masons have often hammered fine powder from Pickett Mushrooms in order to make Pickett Flour, an eternally lasting flour that can make bread that never goes bad. The taste is that of Human sourdough bread. - Dwarven Inventions 3%
Dwarven artificial limbs feel, look, and act like normal limbs. Nobody but the most secretive dwarven alchemists know how they are made, and even dwarves notice no difference between their artificial and original limbs. - Dwarven inventions 4%
Tepuk was always stealthy. He would climb into places unnoticed by any but the most keen observer. He was stealthy even by human standards, and it shaped his entire life, and death. - Tepuk the rogue 1%
Tepuk Once stole a goblet from a dwarf whilst he drank. He switched it with a pewter goblet of inferior quality, took the ruby encrusted in the better quality goblet, then switched it back. - Tepuk the rogue 2%
Tepuk lost his hand to an orc blacksmith whilst stealing his anvil, only to have the blacksmith charmed by the dwarf into constructing an artifact hand for him. Only three of it's kind exist in the world. - Tepuk the rogue 3%
Tepuk's death is undocumented, with many saying he stole the sands of time from death itself. He is said to be the cause of many thefts in the northernmost regions, with children being told to sleep, lest Tepuk come steal them away. - Tepuk the rogue 4%
Tepuk is known to have stolen a mountain heart for himself, having grown in infamy immediately over such a holy relic's theft, he was ousted from the underhome and cast out into the continent. - Tepuk the rogue 5%
Tepuk's trail disappeared a thousand years ago, well before the current predicament the world is in, but all signs point to him having created his own underhome somewhere to the deep east, with what purpose, nobody knows.- Tepuk the Rogue 6%
Tepuk's clan sprouted seemingly overnight 500 years ago, lending to the credence that he had created an entire clan using the dwarven artifact. They went on a pillaging spree against the Centaur people that lasted a decade. - Tepuk the Rogue 7%
After the Human/Centaur wars, Tepuks clan became silent. Had they died? Had they moved back into the mountain, hiding and awaiting a better target or opportunity? Maybe Ruin had captured or even enslaved them. Nobody knows for sure. Tepuk the Rogue 8%
Drinking is not a past time to dwarves, it is a way of life. They imbibe to feel more in tune with the earth, and they cannot feel the effects of alcohol like mankind do. It invigorates them, fortifies their will and expands their minds. - Dwarven Drinking 1%
Drinking games are not so much "games" as shows of strength and power. More often than not, a Dwarven Caste Lord will use a drinking game to determine land shares, nobility clauses, and social standing. Powerful dwarves can down kegs of milkale in a single swig. - Dwarven Drinking 2%
Dwarven Ale is enough to thoroughly waste a centaur in a single shot, and Dwarves often jest at the foolhardiness of different species who attempt to drink on par with the smaller, heartier dwarves. - Dwarven Drinking 3%
Dwarves have three spleens, two of which serve as additional alcohol distillers that run through their fifth and sixth kidney. It is this anatomical anomaly which allows them to out drink any other race. The Dwarves, however, keep this knowledge to themselves, as that gives them an edge in drinking games with other races. - Dwarven Drinking 4%
Ancient Dwarven drinking games consisted of tapping on the table to symbolise gathering equipment, materials or gear. They called it "the dwarven clicker game" it's available in any tavern if you ask the tavern keep. -  Dwarven Drinking 5%
Trollshank is distilled troll hide mixed with magma fumes. It's the strongest liquour a dwarf can imbibe without succumbing to death. It's often used as a right of initiation for Dwarven kin entering adulthood -  Dwarven Drinking 6%
Trollshank is responsible for at least one war, when over a glass a human king was slain due to the glasses having been switched, the human was to have taken whiskey, to which the Caste Lord was heard to have said "What is this, water?"-  Dwarven Drinking 7%
Dwarven drunkeness is very different than human drunkeness. When drunk, a dwarf aims better, speaks clearer, reacts faster, but heals slower. A dwarven limb cut off when drunk will rarely regrow, and is the cause of many permanent dwarven deaths. -  Dwarven Drinking 8%
A brief history of Dwarven kin is a book series which explores Dwarven culture, practices, and clans through the known continent and beyond.%
The books of norn are a compendium dedicated to a brief history of Dwarven Kin's legendary Hero, Norn.%
The book of Ruin exposes dwarven belief that a single dark being is behind their downfall. What is it? What does it seek to achieve?%
a short re-telling of how the dwarves civilization use to bustle beneath the ground, but eventually got driven to the surface.%
the memoirs of a ranger who observes the wilds, with close encounters and unique experiences to share.%
the history and accounts of axebeard, and the reasoning behind the fame and attributed persona.%
a snippet of the life and major events through the life of gishlain. a dwarf who loved the things that grow.%
a physical study on the metabolic nature and hardiness of dwarves and their capabilities.%
the tales of rodenren, the mighty hero of miraculous constitution and resilience.%
Dwarven inventions, a collection of dwarf ingenuity and clever crafting.%
a record of all known activities of the infamous dwarf thief and rogue, Tepuk%
A trivial collection of dwarven drinking games and their cultural significance to dwarf kin.%
gain +10$ speed with all melee attacks.%
gain +10$ damage with all ranged attacks.%
gain +5$ to all resistances.%
gain +10$ total melee damage.%
gain +20$ throwing speed.%
gain +10$ to maximum health.%
backstabs do triple damage.%
lose sneaking visibility twice as slow.%
stunning is 50$ more effective.%
all melee hits have a 5$ chance to KO.%
can dash while sneaking.%
invulnerable to stuns.%
